In this video we're going to run
a definition query, but to start
off with let's organise our
contents and delete some of the
layers that we don't need any
more.
So our hippogriff sighting
points that don't have the
joined environment data we can
remove as we don't need them.
So just right click on this
layer without the environment
data and click remove. And just
a point to make here as we saved
this layer into a Geo database,
we can access this layer again
if we wanted to add it back into
our project, just by going into
the databases folder in our
catalog pane, expanding our
Hippogriff project Geodatabase
and then we can see our layers
that we've saved into that
Geodatabase inside.
So the other things we can
delete are the tables, so just
remove them.
And now let's run our definition
query.
So we're going to right click on
our sighting points and go into
properties, and then we're going
to go into the Definition Query
tab and to add a new query we
can click on the Add New button
here.
And so we're looking for a
sighting of a nest that occurred
in a secondary forest.
So our first clause or our first
query is going to be where
sighting is equal to NEST.
So in this button here we can
add sighting and then we want it
to say is equal to nest.
But the sighting also occurred
in a secondary forest, so we
need to add another clause and
in the first button here we want
it to say 'and' not 'or' as the
sighting was a nest and it
occurred in a secondary forest.
And then our field for this
clause will be environment is
equal to secondary forest.
And now we can click apply and
click OK and now we can see that
that definition query has
filtered our data.
So the only points that we can
see on our map are the points
that fit the criteria that we
set.
So we know our sighting occurred
in Wonegizi protected area which
for me is the orange coloured
Polygon.
And as we only have one data
point here, that is a nest
sighting in a secondary forest,
this must be where our missing
nest sighting is, where there
should have been two nests
recorded instead of one. And
just remember to hit save.